In this video, we will provide you with
a quick summary of the main points
from our first three courses to
recall what you have learned.
If you have just completed our third
course and do not need a refresher,
you might skip to the next lecture.
We started our first course explaining
how a new torrent of big data
combined with cloud computing
capabilities to process data anytime and
anywhere has been at the core of
the launch of the big data era.
Such capabilities enable or
present opportunities for
many dynamic data-driven applications,
including energy management,
smart cities, precision medicine,
and smart manufacturing.
These applications are increasingly
more data-driven, dynamic and
heterogeneous in terms of
their technology needs.
They're also more process-driven and
need to be tackled using
a collaborative approach by a team that
puts value on accountability and
reproducibility of the results.
Overall, by modeling,
managing, integrating diverse
data streams we add value
to our big data and
improve our business even more
before we start analyzing it.
A part of modeling and
managing big data is focusing on
the dimensions of the scalability and
considering the challenges associated with
these dimensions to pick the right tools.
We also talked about characteristics
of big data, referring to some Vs
like volume, variety, velocity,
veracity and valence.
Each week presents a challenging
dimension of big data,
namely size, complexity, speed,
quality and connectedness.
We also added a sixth V,
value, referring to the real reason
we are interested in big data.
To turn it into an advantage in the
context of a problem using data science
techniques, big data needs to be analyzed.
We explained a five steps process for data
science that includes data acquisition,
modeling, management,
integration, and analysis.
The influence of big data pushes for
alternative scalability approaches
at each step of the process.
If we just focus on the scalability
challenges related to the three Vs,
we can say big data has varying volume and
velocity, requiring dynamic and
scalable batch and stream processing.
Big data has variety, requiring management
of data in many different data systems,
and integration of it at scale.
In our introduction to
the big data course,
we talked about the version of a layer
diagram for the tools in the Hadoop
ecosystem, organized vertically
based on the interface.
Low level interfaces for storage and
scheduling on the bottom
and high level languages and
interactivity at the top.
Most of the tools in the Hadoop ecosystem
were initially built to compliment
the capabilities of Hadoop for distributed
file system management using HDFS.
Data processing using
the MapReduce engine, and
resource scheduling, and
negotiation using the YARN engine.
Over time,
a number of new projects were built,
either to add to these complementary
tools or to handle additional types of
big data management and processing not
available in Hadoop, just like Spark.
Arguably, the most important
change to Hadoop over time
was the separation of YARN from
the MapReduce programming model
to solely handle resource
management concerns.
This allowed for Hadoop to be extensible
to different programming models and enable
the development of a number of processing
engines for batch and stream processing.
Another way to look at the vast number of
tools that have been added to the Hadoop
ecosystem is from the point of
view of their functionality
in the big data processing pipeline.
Simply put, these are associated
with three distinct layers for
data management and storage,
for data processing and
for resource coordination and
workflow management.
In our second course, we talked in detail
about the bottom layer in this diagram,
namely data management and storage.
While this layer includes Hadoop's HDFS,
there are a number of other systems
that rely on HDFS as a file system or
implement their own no-SQL storage option.
As big data can have a variety of
structured, semi-structured, and
unstructured formats and
gets analyzed through a variety of tools,
many tools were introduced to
fit this variety of needs.
We call these big data management systems.
We reviewed Redis and Aerospike as
key value stores where each data item
is identified with a unique key.
We also got some practical
experience with Lucene and
Gephi as vector and
graph-stores respectively.
We also talked about Vertica as
a column-store database where
information is stored in
columns rather than rows.
Cassandra and
HBase are also in this category.
Finally, we introduced Solr and
Asterisk DB for managing unstructured and
semi-structured text and
MongoDB as a document store.
The processing layer is where
all these different types
of data get retrieved,
integrated, and analyzed,
which was the primary
focus of our third course.
In the integration and processing layer,
we roughly refer to the tools that
are built on top of HTFS and YARN,
although some of them were with
other storage and file systems.
YARN is a significant enable of many of
these tools making a number of batch and
stream processing engines like Storm,
Spark, Flink and Beam possible.
This layer also includes tools
like Hive and Spark SQL for
bringing a query interface on top
of the storage layer, Pig for
scripting simple big data pipelines
using the MapReduce framework and
a number of specialized
analytical libraries,
formation learning, and graph analytics.
Giraph and GraphX of Spark are examples
of such libraries for graph processing.
Mahout on top of the Hadoop stack and
MLlib of Spark Are two options for
machine learning.
Although we had a basic overview
of graph processing and
machine learning for big data
analytics earlier in our second and
third courses,
we haven't gone into the details there.
In this course, we will use Spark's MLlib
as one of our two main tools,
providing a deeper introduction to
the machine learning library of Spark.
The third and top layer in our diagram is
the coordination and management layer.
This is where integrations,
scheduling, coordination, and
monitoring of applications across many
tools in the bottom two layers take place.
This layer is also where the results of
the big data analysis get communicated
to other programs, websites, visualization
tools and business intelligence tools.
Workflow management systems help to
develop automated solutions that
can manage and coordinate the process
of combining data management and
analytical tasks in a big data pipeline as
a configurable, structured set of steps.
Workflow driven thinking also matches
this basic process of data science
that we overviewed before.
Oozie is an example workflow
scheduler that can interact with
many of the tools in the integration and
processing layer.
Zookeeper is the resource
coordination tool which monitors and
manages and coordinates all these
tools and named after animal.
Now that we've reviewed all three
layers we are ready to come back to
the integration and processing layer, but
now in the context of machine learning.
In which we will use machine
learning techniques to
apply to our five step data science
process and analyze big data.
Just a simple Google search for
big data processing pipelines will bring
a vast number of pipelines with
a large number of technologies
that support scalable data cleaning,
preparation, and analysis.
How do we make sense of all of it to
make sure we use the right tools for
our application?
How do we pick the right
pre-processing and
machine learning techniques to
start doing predictive modeling?
Over the next few weeks Dr.
Mei will walk you through some of the most
fundamental machine learning techniques,
along with introductory hands
on exercises we designed for you to ease
you into the world of machine learning.
Let's get started.